\chapter{Generality}\label{chap1}
\markboth{\uppercase{Generality}}{\uppercase{Generality}}

\minitoc

\section{Introduction}


This software computes the diffraction of an electromagnetic wave by a
three-dimensional object in a multilayer system. This interaction is
taken into account rigorously by solving the Maxwell's equations, but
can also do with the approximation of Born at the order 0 or 1. The
code has an user-friendly interface and allows you to choose canonical
objects (sphere, cube, ...) as well as predefined incident waves
(plane wave, Gaussian beam, ...) or arbitrary objects and incidents
waves. After by drop-down menus, it is easy to study cross sections,
diffraction near field and far field as well as microscopy in
transmission or reflection (holography, brigthfield, dark field,...).


There are numerous methods that enable the study of the diffraction of
an electromagnetic wave by an object of arbitrary form and relative
permittivity. We are not going here to set up an exhaustive list of
these methods, but the curious reader may refer to the article by
F. M. Kahnert who details the advantages and weaknesses of the most
common methods.~\cite{Kahnert_JQSRT_03} 

The method we use is called coupled dipoles method (CDM) or the
discrete dipole approximation (DDA). This method is a volume method,
because the diffracted field is obtained from an integral, the support
of which is the volume of the considered object.  It had been
introduced by E. M. Purcell and C. R. Pennypacker in 1973, in order to
study the scattering of light by grains in interstellar
medium.~\cite{Purcell_AJ_73} 

\section{The principle of discrete dipole approximation in a multilayer system}

Take an object of arbitrary form and relative permittivity in a
multilayer system. This multilayer is submitted to a incident field
electromagnetic wave of wavelength $\lambda$ ($k_0=2\pi/\lambda$). In
the absence of the object under study a reference field takes place in
the multilayer.  The principle of the DDA consists in representing the
object as a set of $N$ small cubes of an edge $a$ [by little, we mean
  smaller than the wavelength in the object : $a\ll
  \lambda/\sqrt{\varepsilon}$ (Fig.~\ref{discretisation})].
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\begin{figure}
\begin{center}
\includegraphics*[draft=false,width=150mm]{discretisation.eps}
\caption{Principle of the DDA : the object under study (on the left)
  is discretized in a set of small dipoles (on the right)l.}
\label{discretisation}
\end{center}
\end{figure}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
Each one of the small cubes under the action of the reference wave is
going to get polarized, and as such, to acquire a dipolar moment,
whose value is going to depend on the reference field and on its
interaction with its neighbours. The local field of a dipole located
at $\ve{r}_i$, $\ve{E}(\ve{r}_i)$, is the sum of the incident wave and
the field radiated by the dipoles :
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\be \label{cdms} \ve{E}(\ve{r}_i)=\ve{E}_{\rm
  ref}(\ve{r}_i)+\sum_{j=1}^{N}
\ve{G}(\ve{r}_i,\ve{r}_j)\alpha(\ve{r}_j)\ve{E}(\ve{r}_j). \ee
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
$\ve{E}_{\rm ref}$ is the reference wave, $\ve{G}$ the linear
susceptibility of the field of the multilayer system.  $\alpha$ is the
polarizability of each discretization element obtained from the
Clausius-Mossotti relation. Note that the polarizability $\alpha$, in
order to respect the optical theorem, needs to contain a term called
the radiative reaction term.~\cite{Draine_AJ_88} Equation~(\ref{cdms})
is valid for $i=1,\cdots,N$, and so represents a system of $3N$ linear
equations where the local fields, $\ve{E}(\ve{r}_i)$, being the
unknowns. Once the system of linear equation is solved, the field
scattered by the object at an arbitrary position $\ve{r}$ is obtained
by making the sum of all the radiated fields by each one of the
dipoles :
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\be \label{cdmd} \ve{E}(\ve{r})=\sum_{j=1}^{N} \ve{G}(\ve{r},\ve{r}_j)
\alpha(\ve{r}_j) \ve{E}(\ve{r}_j). \ee
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%


We have just presented the DDA as E. M. Purcell and C. R. Pennypacker
had presented it earlier.~\cite{Purcell_AJ_73} Note that another
method very close to the DDA does exist. This method called the method
of the moments starts from the integral equation of Lippman Schwinger,
which is strictly identical to the DDA. The demonstration of the
equivalence between these two methods being a little technical, it is
explained in Ref.~\cite{Chaumet_PRE_04}.

The advantages of the DDA are that it is applicable to objects of
arbitrary forms, inhomogeneous (that is hardly achievable in case of
surface method), and anisotropic (the polarizability associated to the
mesh becomes a tensor). The outgoing wave condition is automatically
satisfied through the linear susceptibility of the field. Finally,
note that only the object is discretized unlike the methods of finite
differences and finite elements.~\cite{Kahnert_JQSRT_03} The main
inconvenience of the DDA consists in the fast increase of computation
time together with the increase of the number of discretization
elements, {\it i.e.}, the increase in size of the system of linear
equations to be solved.  

\section{A word about the code}

The code is thought to have a user-friendly interface so that everyone
can use it without any problems including non specialists. This allows
undergraduate students to study, for example, the basics of microscopy
(Rayleigh's criteria, notion of numerical aperture, ...)  or
diffraction without any problem; and researchers, typically
biologists, having no notion of Maxwell's equations to simulate what
gives a microscope (brightfield, phase microscope, dark field, ...) in
function of the usual parameters and the object. Nevertheless, this
code can also serve physicists specializing in electromagnetism in
performing, for example, calculations of diffraction, cross sections,
near field and this with many incident beams.

The code thus has by default a simple interface where all numerical
parameters are hidden and where many options are then chosen by
default. But it's easy to access all Code options by checking the
Advanced Interface option. This user guide explains how to use the
advanced interface in starting with the different approaches used by
the code to solve the Maxwell equations.

Note that the usability of the code is made to the detriment of the
optimization of the RAM and the code can used large memory for large
objects.


\section{How to compile the code}
The application is based on Qt-4.8 and gfortran To install it you need
: qt, qt-devel, gcc-c++ et gfortran.  Notice that there is three
versions of the code, the first one is sequential and uses FFTE (Fast
Fourier Transform in the east), the second one uses FFTW (Fast Fourier
Transform in the west) which needs openmp 4.5 minimum and the third
uses HDF5 format to save data file.  Currently according to the age of
the linux you use, you have Qt4 or Qt5. The code has been tested under
the two environments, but to compile you need adapt qt4 in qt5 on
recent versions, I will note for make compact qt4(5). Then to compile:

\begin{tabular}{|c|c|c|}
  \hline
  Code par d√©faut & Code avec FFTW & Code avec FFTW et HDF5 \\
  \hline
  qmake-qt4(5) & qmake-qt4(5) ``CONFIG+=fftw'' & qmake-qt4(5) ``CONFIG+=fftw hdf5'' \\
  make & make & make \\
make install & make install & make install \\
  \hline
\end{tabular}

To run the application, cd bin, and ./cdm.


On linux system with the library FFTW, it requires to install FFTW
packages with `` dnf install * fftw * ''. For the version that uses
HDF5 file you should install the following packages ``dnf install hdf
hdf5 hdf5-static hdf5-devel''.

The code works on windows system but it is tricky to compile it if you
want to use FFTW.

\section{A word about the authors}

\begin{itemize}
\item P. C. Chaumet is Professor at Fresnel Institute of Aix-Marseille
  University, and deals with the development of the fortran source
  code.
\item A. Sentenac is research director at the CNRS, and works at
  Fresnel Institute of Aix-Marseille University, and participates to
  the development of the code connected to the far field diffraction.
\item D. Sentenac of European Gravitational Observatory in Italia
  develops the convivial interface of the code.
\end{itemize}

\section{Licence}


Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-SA 4.0)

You are free to:

\begin{itemize}
\item Share - copy and redistribute the material in any medium or
  format
\item Adapt - remix, transform, and build upon the material
\end{itemize}

The licensor cannot revoke these freedoms as long as you follow the
license terms.
\begin{itemize}
\item Attribution - You must give appropriate credit, provide a link
  to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You may do so in
  any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor
  endorses you or your use.
\item NonCommercial - You may not use the material for commercial
  purposes.
\item ShareAlike - If you remix, transform, or build upon the
  material, you must distribute your contributions under the same
  license as the original.
\end{itemize}



\section{How to quote the code}

\begin{itemize}

\item P. C. {\textsc{Chaumet}}, A. {\textsc{Sentenac}}, and
  A. {\textsc{Rahmani}}, \\{\it Coupled dipole method for scatterers
    with large permittivity.}\\ Phys. Rev. E {\bf 70}, 036606 (2004).

\item S. {\textsc{Khadir}}, P. C. {\textsc{Chaumet}},
  G. {\textsc{Baffou}} and A. {\textsc{Sentenac}}, \\{\it Quantitative
    model of the image of a radiating dipole through a
    microscope.}\\ J. Opt. Soc. Am. A {\bf 36}, 478 (2019).

\end{itemize}
